CHAPTER I. DOWN THE RABBIT HOLE Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the bank and of having nothing to do. Once or twice she peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no pictures or conversations in it. And what's the use of a book?
thought Alice, without pictures or conversation. So she was considering in her own mind, as well as she could, for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid, whether the pleasure of making a daisy chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a white rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her. There was nothing so very remarkable in that, nor did Alice think it so very much out of the way to hear the rabbit say to itself, Oh dear, oh dear, I shall be late.
When she thought it over afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought to have wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed quite natural. But when the rabbit actually took a watch out of its waistcoat pocket and looked at it, and then hurried on, Alice started to her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she'd never before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat pocket or a watch to take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the field after it.
and fortunately was just in time to see it pop down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge in another moment down went alice after it never once considering how in the world she was to get out again the rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way and then dipped suddenly down so suddenly that alice had not a moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself falling down a very deep well either the well was very deep
or she fell very slowly, for she had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to wonder what was going to happen next. First she tried to look down and make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to see anything. Then she looked at the sides of the well, and noticed that they were filled with cupboards and bookshelves. Here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs. She took down a jar from one of the shelves as she passed. It was labelled Orange Marmalade, but to her great disappointment it was empty.
she did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing somebody so she managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she fell past it well thought alice to herself after such a fall as this i shall think nothing of tumbling downstairs how brave they'll all think me at home why i wouldn't say anything about it even if i fell off the top of a house which was very likely true down down down would the fall never come to an end
I wonder how many miles I've fallen by this time, she said aloud. I must be getting somewhere near the center of the earth. Let me see, that would be four thousand miles down, I think. For you see, Alice had learned several things of this sort in her lessons in the schoolroom, and though this was not a very good opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as there was no one to listen to her, still it was good practice to say it over. Yes, that's about the right distance. But then I wonder what latitude or longitude I've got to. Alice had no idea what latitude was.
or longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to say. Presently she began again, I wonder if I shall fall right through the earth. How funny it'll seem to come out among the people that walk with their heads downward. The antipathies, I think. She was rather glad there was no one listening this time, as it didn't sound at all the right word. But I shall have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know. Please, ma'am, is this New Zealand or Australia? And she tried to curtsy as she spoke.
Fancy curtsying as you're falling through the air. Do you think you could manage it? And what an ignorant little girl shall thank me for asking. No, it'll never do to ask. Perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere. Down, down, down. There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon began talking again. Dinah will miss me very much tonight, I should think. Dinah was the cat. I hope they'll remember her saucer of milk at tea time. Dinah, my dear, I wish you were down here with me.
there are no mice in the air i'm afraid but you might catch a bat and that's very like a mouse you know but do cats eat bats i wonder and here alice began to get rather sleepy and went on saying to herself in a dreamy sort of way do cats eat bats do cats eat bats and sometimes do bats eat cats for you see as she couldn't answer either question it didn't much matter which way she put it
she felt that she was dozing off and had just begun to dream that she was walking hand in hand with dinah and saying to her very earnestly now dinah tell me the truth did you ever eat a bat when suddenly thump thump down she came upon a heap of sticks and dry leaves and the fall was over alice was not a bit hurt and she jumped up on her feet in a moment she looked up but it was all dark overhead before her was another long passage and the white rabbit was still in sight hurrying down it
there was not a moment to be lost away went alice like the wind and was just in time to hear it say as it turned a corner oh my ears and whiskers how late it's getting she was close behind it when she turned the corner but the rabbit was no longer to be seen she found herself in a long low hall which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging from the roof there were doors all around the hall but they were all locked and when alice had been all the way down one side and up the other trying every door she walked sadly down the middle
wondering how she was ever to get out again. Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of solid glass. There was nothing on it except a tiny golden key, and Alice's first thought was that it might belong to one of the doors of the hall. But alas, either the locks were too large or the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of them. However, on the second time round she came upon a low curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a little door, about fifteen inches high.
she tried the little golden key in the lock and to her great delight it fitted alice opened the door and found it led into a small passage not much larger than a rat-hole she knelt down and looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw how she longed to get out of that dark hall and wander about among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains but she could not even get her head through the doorway and even if my head would go through thought poor alice
It would be of very little use without my shoulders. Oh, how I wish I could shut up like a telescope. I think I could, if I only know how to begin. For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things had happened lately that Alice had begun to think that very few things indeed were really impossible. There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she went back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like telescopes. This time she found a little bottle on it.
which certainly was not here before said alice and round the neck of the bottle was a paper label with the words drink me beautifully printed on it in large letters it was all very well to say drink me but the wise little alice was not going to do that in a hurry no i'll look first she said and see whether it's marked poison or not for she had read several nice little histories about children who'd gotten burnt
and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant things all because they would not remember the simple rules their friends had taught them such as that a red-hot poker will burn you if you hold it too long and that if you cut your finger very deeply with a knife it usually bleeds and she had never forgotten that if you drink much from a bottle marked poison it's almost certain to disagree with you sooner or later however this bottle was not marked poison so alice ventured to taste it and finding it very nice
It had, in fact, a sort of mixed flavor of cherry tart, custard, pineapple, roast turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast. She very soon finished it off. What a curious feeling, said Alice. I must be shutting up like a telescope. And so it was indeed. She was now only ten inches high, and her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right size for going through the little door into that lovely garden. First, however, she waited for a few minutes to see if she was going to shrink any further.
she felt a little nervous about this for it might end you know said alice to herself in my going out altogether like a candle i wonder what i should be like then and she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is like after the candle is blown out for she could not remember having ever seen such a thing after a while finding that nothing more happened she decided on going into the garden at once but alas for poor alice when she got to the door she found she had forgotten the little golden key and when she went back to the table for it
she found she could not possibly reach it she could see it quite plainly through the glass and she tried her best to climb up one of the legs of the table but it was too slippery and when she had tired herself out with trying the poor little thing sat down and cried come there's no use crying like that said alice to herself rather sharply i advise you to leave off this minute she generally gave herself very good advice though she very seldom followed it
and sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to bring tears into her eyes she once remembered trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game of croquet she was playing against herself for this curious child was fond of pretending to be two people but it's no use now thought poor alice to pretend to be two people why there's hardly enough of me to make one respectable person soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under the table she opened it and found in it a very small cake
on which the words eat me were beautifully marked in currants well i'll eat it said alice and if it makes me grow larger i can reach the key and if it makes me grow smaller i can creep under the door so either way i'll get into the garden and i don't care which happens she ate a little bit and said anxiously to herself which way which way holding her hand on the top of her head to feel which way it was growing and she was quite surprised to find that she remained the same size
To be sure, this generally happens when one eats cake, but Alice had gotten so much into the way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the common way. So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.
chapter two the pool of tears curiouser and curiouser cried alice she was so much surprised that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good english
now i'm opening out like the largest telescope that ever was good-by feet for when she looked down at her feet they seemed to be almost out of sight they were getting so far off oh my poor little feet i wonder who will put on your shoes and stockings for you now dears i'm sure i shan't be able to i shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself about you you must manage the best you can
but i must be kind to them thought alice or perhaps they won't walk the way i want to go let me see i'll give them a new pair of boots every christmas and she went on planning to herself how she should manage it they must go by carrier she thought and how funny i'll seem sending presents to one's own feet and how odd the directions will look alice's right foot esquire hearthrug near the fender with alice's love
oh dear what nonsense i'm talking just then her head struck against the roof of the hall in fact she was now more than nine feet high and she at once took up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door poor alice it was as much as she could do lying down on one side to look through into the garden with one eye but to get through was more hopeless than ever she sat down and began to cry again
you ought to be ashamed of yourself said alice a great girl like you-she might well say this to go on crying in this way stop this moment i tell you but she went on all the same shedding gallons of tears until there was a large pool all around her about four inches deep and reaching half down the hall after a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the distance and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming
it was the white rabbit returning splendidly dressed with a pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the other he came trotting along in a great hurry muttering to himself as he came oh the duchess the duchess oh won't she be savage if i've kept her waiting
dropped the white kid gloves and the fan and scurried away into the darkness as hard as he could go alice took up the fan and gloves and as the hall was very hot she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking dear dear how queer everything is to-day and yesterday things went on just as usual i wonder if i've been changed in the night let me think was i the same when i got up this morning
i almost think i can remember feeling a little different but if i'm not the same the next question is who in the world am i ah that's the great puzzle and she began thinking over all the children that she knew that were of the same age as herself to see if she could have been changed for any of them i'm sure i'm not ada she said for her hair goes in such long ringlets and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all and i'm sure i can't be mabel
for i know all sorts of things and she oh she knows such a very little besides she's she and i'm i and oh dear how puzzling it all is i'll try if i know all the things i used to know let me see four times five is twelve and four times six is thirteen and four times seven is oh dear i shall never get to twenty at that rate
however the multiplication table doesn't signify let's try geography london is the capital of paris and paris is the capital of rome and rome no that's all wrong i'm certain i must have been changed for mabel i'll try and say how doth the little and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons and began to repeat it but her voice sounded hoarse and strange and the words did not come the same as they used to
how doth the little crocodile improve his shining tail and pour the waters of the nile on every golden scale how cheerfully he seems to grin how neatly spread his claws and welcome little fishes in with gently smiling jaws i'm sure those are not the right words said poor alice and her eyes filled with tears again as she went on
i must be mabel after all and i shall have to go and live in that poky little house and have next to no toys to play with and oh ever so many lessons to learn no i've made up my mind about it if i'm mabel i'll stay down here it'll be no use their putting their heads down and saying come up again dear i shall only look up and say
who am i then tell me that first and then if i like being that person i'll come up if not i'll stay down here till i'm somebody else but oh dear cried alice with a sudden burst of tears i do wish they would put their heads down i am so very tired of being all alone here as she said this she looked down at her hands and was surprised to see that she had put on one of the rabbit's little white kid gloves while she was talking
how can i have done that she thought i must be growing small again she got up and went to the table to measure herself by it and found that as nearly as she could guess she was now about two feet high and was going on shrinking rapidly she soon found out that the cause of this was the fan that she was holding and she dropped it hastily just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether that was a narrow escape said alice a good deal frightened at the sudden change
but very glad to find herself still in existence and now for the garden and she ran with all speed back to the little door but alas the door was shut again and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as before and things are worse than ever thought the poor child for i never was so small as this before never and i declare it's too bad that it is
as she said these words her foot slipped and in another moment splash she was up to her chin in salt water her first idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea and in that case i can go back by railway she said to herself
alice had been to the seaside once in her life and had come to the general conclusion that wherever you go on the english coast you find a number of bathing machines in the sea some children digging in the sand with wooden spades then a row of lodging-houses and behind them a railway station however she soon made out that she was in a pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine feet high
i wish i hadn't cried so much said alice as she swam about trying to find her way out i shall be punished for it now i suppose by being drowned in my own tears that will be a queer thing to be sure however everything is queer to-day just then she heard something splash about in the pool a little way off and she swam nearer to make out what it was at first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus
but then she remembered how small she was now and she soon made out that it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself would it be of any use now thought alice to speak to this mouse everything is so out of the way down here that i should think very likely it can talk at any rate there's no harm in trying so she began oh mouse do you know the way out of this pool i am very tired of swimming about here oh mouse
alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse she had never done such a thing before but she remembered having seen her brother's latin grammar a mouse of a mouse to a mouse a mouse o mouse the mouse looked at her rather inquisitively and seemed to her to wink with one of its little eyes but it said nothing perhaps it doesn't understand english thought alice i dare say it's a french mouse come over with william the conqueror
with all her knowledge of history alice had no clear notion how long ago anything had happened so she began again who is monsieur which was the first sentence in her french lesson book the mouse gave a sudden leap out of the water and seemed to quiver all over with fright oh i beg your pardon cried alice hastily afraid that she had hurt the poor animal's feelings i quite forgot you don't like cats
not like cats cried the mouse in a shrill passionate voice would you like cats if you were me well perhaps not said alice in a soothing tone don't be angry about it and yet i wish i could show you our cat dinah i think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her
she is such a dear quiet thing alice went on half to herself as she swam lazily about in the pool and she sits purring so nicely by the fire licking her paws and washing her face and she is such a nice soft thing to nurse and she is such a capital one for catching mice oh i beg your pardon cried alice again for this time the mouse was bristling all over and she felt certain it must be really offended we won't talk about her any more if you'd rather not we indeed
cried the mouse who was trembling down to the end of his tail as if i would talk on such a subject our family always hated cats nasty low vulgar things don't let me hear the name again i won't indeed said alice in a great hurry to change the subject of conversation and you are you fond of-of dogs the mouse did not answer so alice went on eagerly
there is such a nice little dog near our house i should like to show you a little bright-eyed terrier you know with oh such long curly brown hair and it'll fetch things when you throw them and it'll sit up and beg for its dinner and all sorts of things i can't remember half of them and it belongs to a farmer you know and he says it's so useful it's worth a hundred pounds he says it kills all the rats and-oh dear cried alice in a sorrowful tone i'm afraid i'm offended again
for the mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go and making quite a commotion in the pool as it went so she called softly after it mouse dear do come back again and i won't talk about cats or dogs either if you don't like them when the mouse heard this it turned round and swam slowly back to her its face was quite pale with passion alice thought and it said in a low trembling voice
let us get to the shore and then i'll tell you my history and you'll understand why it is that i hate cats and dogs it was high time to go for the pool was getting quite crowded with birds and animals that had fallen into it there was a duck and a dodo a lorry and an eaglet and several other curious creatures alice led the way and the whole party swam to the shore chapter two
Alice in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll
chapter three a caucus race and a long tale they were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the bank the birds with draggled feathers the animals with their fur clinging close to them and all dripping wet cross and uncomfortable the first
question of course was how to get dry again they had a consultation about this and after a few minutes it seemed quite natural to alice to find herself talking familiarly with them as if she had known them all her life indeed she had quite a long argument with the lorry
who at last turned sulky and would only say i am older than you and must know better and this alice would not allow without knowing how old it was and as the lory positively refused to tell its age there was no more to be said at last the mouse
who seemed to be a person of authority among them called out sit down all of you and listen to me i'll soon make you dry enough they all sat down at once in a large ring with the mouse in the middle alice kept her eyes anxiously fixed on it for she felt sure she would catch a bad
hold if she did not get dry very soon ahem said the mouse with an important air are you all ready this is the driest thing i know silence all around if you please william the conqueror whose cause was favored by the pope was soon submitted to by the english who wanted leaders
and had been of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest edwin and morcar the earls of mercia and north umbria ugh said the lory with a shiver i beg your pardon said the mouse frowning but very politely did you speak not i said the lory hastily
i thought you did said the mouse i proceed edwin and morcar the earls of mercia and northumbria declared for him and even stigand the patriotic archbishop of canterbury found it advisable found what said the duck found it the mouse replied rather crossly
of course you know what it means i know what it means well enough when i find a thing said the duck it's generally a frog or a worm the question is what did the archbishop find the mouse did not notice this question but hurriedly went on
found it advisable to go with edgar etheling to meet william and offer him the crown william's conduct was at first moderate but the insolence of his normans how are you getting on now my dear it continued turning to alice as it spoke as wet as ever said alice in a melancholy tone
it doesn't seem to dry me at all in that case said the dodo solemnly rising to its feet i move that the meeting adjourn for the immediate adoption of more energetic remedies speak english said the eaglet i don't know the meaning of half those long words and what's more i don't believe you do
either and the eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile some of the other birds tittered audibly what i was going to say said the dodo in an offended tone was that the best thing is to get us dry would be a caucus race what is a caucus race said alice
not that she wanted much to know but the dodo had paused as if it thought that somebody ought to speak and no one else seemed inclined to say anything why said the dodo the best way to explain it is to do it and you might like to try the thing yourself some winter day
i will tell you how the dodo managed it first it marked out a race course in a sort of circle the exact shape doesn't matter it said and then all the party were placed along the course here and there there was no one two three and away
but they began running when they liked and left off when they liked so that it was not easy to know when the race was over however when they had been running half an hour or so and were quite dry again the dodo suddenly called out the race is over and they all crowded round it panting and asking but who has won
this question the dodo could not answer without a great deal of thought and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon its forehead the position in which you usually see shakespeare in the pictures of him while the rest waited in silence at last the dodo said everybody has won and all must have prizes
but who is to give the prizes quite a chorus of voices asked why she of course said the dodo pointing to alice with one finger and the whole party at once crowded round her calling out in a confused way prizes prizes alice had no idea what to do
and in despair she put her hand in her pocket and pulled out a box of comfits luckily the salt water had not got into it and handed them round as prizes there was exactly one apiece all round but she should but she must have a prize herself you know said the mouse
of course the dodo replied very gravely what else have you got in your pocket he went on turning to alice only a thimble said alice sadly hand it over here said the dodo then they all crowded round her once more while the dodo solemnly presented the thimble saying
we beg your acceptance of this elegant thimble and when it had finished this short speech they all cheered alice thought the whole thing very absurd but they all looked so grave that she did not dare to laugh and as she could not think of anything to say she simply bowed
and took the thimble looking as solemn as she could the next thing was to eat the comfits this caused some noise and confusion as the large birds complained that they could not taste theirs and the small ones choked and had to be patted on the back however it was over at last and they sat down again in a ring
and begged the mouse to tell them something more you promised to tell me your history you know said alice and why it is you hate c and d she added in a whisper half afraid that it would be offended again mine is a long and a sad tale said the mouse turning to alice and sighing
it is a long tale certainly said alice looking down with wonder at the mouse's tail but why do you call it sad and she kept on puzzling about it while the mouse was speaking so that her idea of the tale was something like this here the words are written on the page one two four
on a line and the lines are offset so they snake down the page in a wavy fashion and here's what they say fury said to a mouse that he met in the house let us both go to law i will prosecute you come i'll take no denial we must have a trial
for really this morning i've nothing to do said the mouse to the cur such a trial dear sir with no jury or judge would be wasting our breath i'll be judge i'll be jury said cunning old fury i'll try the whole cause and condemn you to death
and there's where the snaky text ends continuing you are not attending said the mouse to alice severely what are you thinking of i beg your pardon said alice very humbly you had got to the fifth bend i think i had not cried the mouse sharply and very angrily a knot said alice
always ready to make herself useful and looking anxiously about her oh do let me help to undo it i shall do nothing of the sort said the mouse getting up and walking away you insult me by talking such nonsense i didn't mean it pleaded poor alice but you're so easily offended you know
the mouse only growled in reply please come back and finish your story alice called after it and the others all joined in chorus yes please do but the mouse only shook its head impatiently and walked a little quicker what a pity it wouldn't stay sighed the lory as soon as it was quite out of sight
and an old crab took the opportunity of saying to her daughter ah my dear let this be a lesson to you never to lose your temper hold your tongue ma said the young crab a little snappishly you're enough to try the patience of an oyster oh i wish i had our dinah here i know i do said alice aloud addressing nobody in particular
she'd soon fetch it back and who is dinah if i might venture to ask the question said the lorry alice replied eagerly for she was always ready to talk about her pet dinah's our cat and she's such a capital one for catching mice you can't think and oh i wish you could see her after the birds why she'll eat a little bird
as soon as look at it this speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party some of the birds hurried off at once one old magpie began wrapping itself up very carefully remarking i really must be getting home the night air doesn't suit my throat and the canary called out in a trembling voice to its children
come away my dears it's high time you were all in bed on various pretexts they all moved off and alice was soon left alone oh i wish i hadn't mentioned dinah she said to herself in a melancholy tone nobody seems to like her down here and i'm sure she's the best cat in the world oh my dear dinah
I wonder if I shall ever see you any more. And here poor Alice began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited. In a little while, however, she again heard a little pattering of footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping that the mouse had changed his mind and was coming back.
to finish his story. This is the end of chapter three.
Today's reading by Miette. Miette's Bedtime Story Podcast. Alice's Adventures in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll.
Chapter four. The rabbit sends in a little bill. It was the white rabbit trotting slowly back again and looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something. And she heard it muttering to itself. The Duchess! The Duchess! Oh, my dear paws! Oh, my fur and whiskers! She'll get me executed as sure as ferrets are ferrets.
Can I have dropped them, I wonder? Alice guessed in a moment that it was looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she very good-naturedly began hunting about for them. But they were nowhere to be seen. Everything seemed to have changed since her swim in the pool, and the great hall with the glass table and the little door had vanished completely. Very soon the rabbit noticed Alice.
as she went hunting about and called out to her in an angry tone. Why, Marianne, what are you doing out here? Run home this moment and fetch me a pair of gloves and a fan. Quick now! And Alice was so much frightened that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to without trying to explain the mistake it had made. He took me for his housemaid, she said to herself as she ran. How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am!
But I'd better take him his fan and gloves, that is, if I can find them. As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door of which was a bright brass plate with the name W. Rabbit engraved upon it. She went in without knocking and hurried upstairs in great fear lest she should meet the real Marianne and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and gloves.
Here it seems, Alice said to herself, to be going messages for a rabbit. I suppose Dinah will be sending me out on messages next. And she began fancying the sort of thing that would happen. Miss Alice, come here directly and get ready for your walk. Coming in a minute, nurse, but I've got to see that the mouse doesn't get out. Only I don't think, Alice went on, that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering people about like that.
By this time, she had found her way into a tidy little room with a table in the window and on it, as she had hoped, a fan and two or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves. She took up the fan and a pair of the gloves and was just going to leave the room when her eyes fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking glass. There was no label this time with the words, drink me, but nevertheless...
She uncorked it and put it to her lips. I know something interesting is sure to happen, she said to herself, whenever I eat or drink anything. So I'll just see what this bottle does. I do hope it'll make me grow large again, for really I'm quite tired of being such a tiny little thing. It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected.
Before she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing against the ceiling and had to stoop to save her neck from being broken. She hastily put down the bottle, saying to herself, That's quite enough. I hope I shan't grow any more. As it is, I can't get out of the door. I do wish I hadn't drunk quite so much. Alas, it was too late to wish that. She went on growing.
and growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor. In another minute there was not even room for this, and she tried the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door and the other arm curled round her head. Still she went on growing, and, as a last resource, she put one arm out the window and one foot up the chimney, and said to herself, Now I can do no more whatever happens.
What will become of me? Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full effect and she grew no larger. Still, it was very uncomfortable and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy. It was much pleasanter at home, thought poor Alice.
when one wasn't always growing larger and smaller and being ordered about by mice and rabbits. I almost wish I hadn't gone down that rabbit hole. And yet, and yet, it's rather curious, you know, this sort of life. I do wonder what can have happened to me. When I used to read fairy tales, I fancied that kind of thing never happened. And now here I am in the middle of one. There ought to be a book written about me.
That there ought. And when I grow up, I'll write one. But I'm grown up now, she added in a sorrowful tone. At least there's no room to grow up any more here. Then, thought Alice, shall I never get any older than I am now? That'll be a comfort, one way, never to be an old woman. But then, always to have lessons to learn. Oh, I shouldn't like that. Oh, you foolish Alice.
She answered herself. How can you learn lessons in here? Why, there's hardly room for you, and no room at all for any lesson books. And so she went on, taking first one side, then the other, and making quite a conversation of it all together. But after a few minutes, she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen. Marianne, Marianne, said the voice. Fetch me my gloves this moment. Then came a little pattering of feet on the stairs.
Alice knew it was the rabbit coming to look for her and she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting that she was now about a thousand times as large as the rabbit and had no reason to be afraid of it. Presently, the rabbit came up to the door and tried to open it. But as the door opened inwards and Alice's elbow was pressed hard against it, that attempt proved a failure.
Alice heard it say to itself, Then I'll go round and get in at the window. That you won't, thought Alice. And after waiting till she fancied she heard the rabbit just under the window, she suddenly spread out her hand and made a snatch in the air. She did not get hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek and a fall and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded,
that it was just possible it had fallen into a cucumber frame or something of the sort. Next came an angry voice. The rabbit's. Pat, where are you? And then a voice she had never heard before. Sure then, I'm here, digging for apples, your honour. Digging for apples indeed, said the rabbit angrily. Here, come and help me out of this. Sounds of more broken glass.
Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window? Sure it's an arm, Your Honour. He pronounced it arm. Never saw one that size. Why, it fills the whole window. Sure it does, Your Honour, but it's an arm for all that. Well, it's got no business there at any rate. Go and take it away. There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear whispers now and then, such as...
Sure, I don't like it, Your Honour, at all, at all. Do as I tell you, you coward. And at last she spread out her hand again and made another snatch in the air. This time there were two little shrieks and more sounds of breaking glass. What a number of cucumber frames there must be, thought Alice. I wonder what they'll do next. As for pulling me out of the window, I only wish they could.
I'm sure I don't want to stay in here any longer. She waited for some time without hearing anything more. At last came a rumbling of little cartwheels and the sound of a good many voices all talking together. She made out the words. Where's the other ladder? Why, I hadn't thought to bring but one. Bill's got the other. Bill, fetch it here, lad. Put him up at the corner.
No, tie them together first. They don't reach half high enough yet. Oh, they'll do well enough. Don't be particular. Here, Bill, catch hold of this rope. Will the roof break? Mind that loose slat. Oh, it's coming down. Heads below. A loud crash. Now, who did that? It was Bill, I fancy. Who's to go down the chimney? Nay, I shan't. You do it. That I won't, then.
Bill's to go down. Here, Bill. The master says you're to go down the chimney. So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he? said Alice to herself. Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill. I wouldn't be in Bill's place for a good deal. This fireplace is narrow, to be sure. But I think I can kick a little. She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could and waited till she heard a little animal.
She couldn't guess of what sort it was, scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close above her. Then, saying to herself, this is Bill, she gave one sharp kick and waited to see what would happen next. The first thing she heard was a general chorus of, there goes Bill! Then the rabbit's voice along, catch him, you by the hedge! Then silence.
And then another confusion of voices. Hold up his head. Brandy now, don't choke him. How was it, old fella? What happened to you? Tell us all about it. Last came a little, feeble, squeaking voice. It's Bill, thought Alice. Well, I hardly know no more. Thank you. I'm better now, but I'm a deal too flustered to tell you. All I know is...
Something comes at me like a jack-in-the-box, and up I goes like a skyrocket. So you did, old fellow, said the others. We must burn the house down, said the rabbit's voice, and Alice called out as loud as she could. If you do, I'll set diner at you. There was a deadly silence instantly, and Alice thought to herself, I wonder what they will do next.
if they had any sense they'd take the roof off after a minute or two they began moving about again and alice heard the rabbit say a barrelful will do to begin with thought alice but she had not long to doubt for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came rattling in at the window and some of them hit her in the face i'll put a stop to this she said to herself and shouted out
You'd better not do that again, which produced another dead silence. Alice noted, with some surprise, that the pebbles were all turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright idea came into her head. I eat one of these cakes, she thought. It's sure to make some change in my size, and as it can't possibly make me larger, it must make me smaller, I suppose.
So she swallowed one of the cakes and was delighted to find that she began shrinking directly. As soon as she was small enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house and found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside. The poor little lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by two guinea pigs who were giving it something out of a bottle. They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared.
But she ran off as hard as she could and soon found herself safe in a thick wood. The first thing I've got to do, said Alice to herself as she wandered about in the wood, is to grow to my right size again. And the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden. I think that will be the best plan. It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and simply arranged.
The only difficulty was that she had not got the smallest idea how to set about it. And while she was peering about anxiously among the trees, a little sharp bark just over her head made her look up in a great hurry. An enormous poppy was looking down at her with large round eyes and feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her. The little thing...
said Alice in a coaxing tone, and she tried hard to whistle to it, but she was terribly frightened all the time at the thought that it might be hungry, in which case it would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coaxing. Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of stick and held it out to the puppy, whereupon the puppy jumped into the air off all its feet at once with a yelp of delight and rushed at the stick.
and made believe to worry it. Then Alice dodged behind a great thistle to keep herself from being run over and the moment she appeared on the other side, the puppy made another rush at the stick and tumbled head over heels in its hurry to get hold of it. Then Alice, thinking it was very like having a game of play with a cart horse and expecting every moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle again.
Then the puppy began a series of short charges at the stick, running a very little way forwards each time and a long way back, and barking hoarsely all the while, till at last it set down a good way off, panting, with its tongue hanging out of his mouth and its great eyes half shut. This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape, so she set off at once.
and ran till she was quite tired and out of breath, and till the puppy's bark sounded quite faint in the distance. And yet what a dear little puppy it was, said Alice, as she leant against a buttercup to rest herself and found herself with one of the leaves. I should have liked teaching it tricks very much if I'd only been the right size to do it. Oh dear!
I'd nearly forgotten that I've got to grow up again. Let me see. How is this to be managed? I suppose I ought to eat or drink something or other. But the great question is, what? The great question certainly was, what? Alice looked all round her at the flowers and the blades of grass. But she did not see anything that looked like the right thing.
to eat or drink under the circumstances. There was a large mushroom growing near her, about the same height as herself, and when she had looked under it, and on both sides of it, and behind it, it occurred to her that she might as well look and see what was on top of it. She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of the mushroom,
and her eyes immediately met those of a large caterpillar that was sitting on the top with its arms folded, quietly smoking a long hookah, and taking not the smallest notice of her or of anything else. End of chapter four, recorded on Tuesday the 6th of December in New York, New York.
CHAPTER V. ADVICE FROM A CATERPILLAR The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in silence.
at last the caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and addressed her in a languid sleepy voice who are you said the caterpillar this was not an encouraging opening for a conversation alice replied rather shyly i-i hardly know sir just at present at least i know who i was when i got up this morning but i think i must have been changed several times since then
"'What do you mean by that?' said the caterpillar sternly. "'Explain yourself.' "'I can't explain myself, I'm afraid, sir,' said Alice. "'Because I'm not myself, you see.' "'I don't see,' said the caterpillar. "'I'm afraid I can't put it more clearly,' Alice replied, very politely, "'for I can't understand it myself to begin with, "'and being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing.' "'It isn't,' said the caterpillar. "'Well—'
Perhaps you haven't found it so yet, said Alice. But when you have to turn into a chrysalis, you will some day, you know, and then after that into a butterfly, I should think you'll feel it a little queer, won't you? Not a bit, said the caterpillar. Well, perhaps your feelings may be different, said Alice. All I know is, it would feel very queer to me. You, said the caterpillar contemptuously, who are you?
which brought them back again to the beginning of the conversation. Alice felt a little irritated at the caterpillars making such very short remarks, and she drew herself up and said, very gravely, I think you ought to tell me who you are first. Why? said the caterpillar. Here was another puzzling question, and as Alice could not think of any good reason, and as the caterpillar seemed to be in a very unpleasant state of mind, she turned away. Come back!
The caterpillar called after her. I've something important to say. This sounded promising, certainly. Alice turned and came back again. Keep your temper, said the caterpillar. Is that all, said Alice, swallowing down her anger as well as she could? No, said the caterpillar. Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else to do, and perhaps, after all, it might tell her something worth hearing. For some minutes it puffed away without speaking.
but at last it unfolded its arms took the hookah out of its mouth again and said so you think you're changed do you i'm afraid i am sir said alice i can't remember things as i used and i don't keep the same size for ten minutes together can't remember what things said the caterpillar well i've tried to say how doth the little busy bee but it all came different alice replied in a very melancholy voice repeat
Your old Father William, said the caterpillar. Alice folded her hands and began. You are old, Father William, the young man said, and your hair has become very white, and yet you incessantly stand on your head. Do you think, at your age, it is right? In my youth, Father William replied to his son, I feared it might injure the brain. But now that I'm perfectly sure I have none, why, I do it again and again.
You are old, said the youth, as I mentioned before, and have grown most uncommonly fat. Yet you turned a back somersault in at the door. Pray, what is the reason of that? In my youth, said the sage, as he shook his grey locks, I kept all my limbs very supple. By the use of this ointment, one shilling the box, allow me to sell you a couple? You are old, said the youth, and your jaws are too weak for anything tougher than suet. Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak. Pray, how did you manage to do it?
in my youth said his father i took to the law and argued each case with my wife and the muscular strength which it gave to my jaw has lasted the rest of my life you are old said the youth one would hardly suppose that your eye was as steady as ever yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose what made you so awfully clever i have answered three questions and that is enough said his father don't give yourself airs do you think i can listen all day to such stuff be off or i'll kick you downstairs
That is not said right, said the caterpillar. Not quite right, I'm afraid, said Alice timidly. Some of the words have got altered. It is wrong from beginning to end, said the caterpillar decidedly, and there was silence for some minutes. The caterpillar was the first to speak. What size do you want to be? it asked. Oh, I'm not particular as to size, Alice hastily replied. Only one doesn't like changing so often, you know.
I don't know, said the caterpillar. Alice said nothing. She had never been so much contradicted in her life before, and she felt that she was losing her temper. Are you content now, said the caterpillar. Well, I should like to be a little larger, sir, if you wouldn't mind, said Alice. Three inches is such a wretched height to be. It is a very good height indeed, said the caterpillar angrily, rearing itself upright as it spoke. It was exactly three inches high.
But I'm not used to it, pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone. And she thought to herself, I wish the creatures wouldn't be so easily offended. You'll get used to it in time, said the caterpillar. And it put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again. This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again. In a minute or two, the caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and yawned once or twice and shook itself. Then it got down off the mushroom.
and crawled away in the grass, merely remarking as it went, One side will make you grow taller, and the other side will make you grow shorter. One side of what? The other side of what? thought Alice to herself. Of the mushroom, said the caterpillar, just as if she had asked it aloud. And in another moment it was out of sight. Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a minute, trying to make out which were the two sides of it.
and as it was perfectly round she found this a very difficult question however at last she stretched her arms round it as far as they would go and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand and now which is which she said to herself and nibbled a little of the right-hand bit to try the effect the next moment she felt a violent blow underneath her chin it had struck her foot she was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change
but she felt that there was no time to be lost as she was shrinking rapidly. So she set to work at once to eat some of the other bit. Her chin was pressed so closely against her foot that there was hardly room to open her mouth, but she did it at last and managed to swallow a morsel of the left-hand bit. "'Come, my head's free at last,' said Alice in a tone of delight, which changed into alarm in another moment when she found that her shoulders were nowhere to be found. All she could see when she looked down
was an immense length of neck which seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay far below her what can all that green stuff be said alice and where have my shoulders got to and oh my poor hands how is it i can't see you she was moving them about as she spoke but no result seemed to follow except a little shaking among the distant green leaves as there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her head
She tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted to find that her neck would bend about easily in any direction, like a serpent. She had just succeeded in curving it down into a graceful zigzag, and was going to dive in among the leaves, which she found to be nothing but the tops of the trees under which she had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made her draw back in a hurry. A large pigeon had flown into her face and was beating her violently with its wings.
"'Serpent!' screamed the pigeon. "'I'm not a serpent,' said Alice indignantly. "'Let me alone.' "'Serpent, I say again!' repeated the pigeon, but in a more subdued tone, and added with a kind of sob, "'I've tried every way, and nothing seems to suit them.' "'I haven't the least idea what you're talking about,' said Alice. "'I've tried the roots of trees, and I've tried banks, and I've tried hedges,' the pigeon went on without attending to her.
"'But those serpents, there's no pleasing them.' Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no use in saying anything more till the pigeon had finished. "'As if it wasn't trouble enough hatching the eggs,' said the pigeon. "'But I must be on the lookout for serpents night and day. Why, I haven't had a wink of sleep these three weeks.' "'I'm very sorry you've been annoyed,' said Alice, who was beginning to see its meaning. "'And just as I'd taken the highest tree in the wood,' continued the pigeon,
"'raising its voice to a shriek. "'And just as I was thinking I should be free of them at last, "'they must needs come wriggling down from the sky. "'Ugh! Serpent!' "'But I'm not a serpent, I tell you,' said Alice. "'I'm a—I'm a—' "'Well, what are you?' said the pigeon. "'I can see you're trying to invent something.' "'I—I'm a little girl,' said Alice, rather doubtfully, "'as she remembered the number of changes she had gone through that day.
a likely story indeed said the pigeon in a tone of the deepest contempt i've seen a good many little girls in my time but never one with such a neck as that no no you're a serpent and there's no use denying it i suppose you'll be telling me next that you have never tasted an egg i have tasted eggs certainly said alice who was a very truthful child but little girls eat eggs quite as much as serpents do you know i don't believe it said the pigeon but if they do
Why, then they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say. This was such a new idea to Alice that she was quite silent for a minute or two, which gave the pigeon the opportunity of adding, You're looking for eggs, I know that well enough. And what does it matter to me whether you're a little girl or a serpent? It matters a good deal to me, said Alice hastily. But I'm not looking for eggs as it happens. And if I was, I shouldn't want yours. I don't like them raw.
well be off then said the pigeon in a sulky tone as it settled down again into its nest alice crouched down among the trees as well as she could for her neck kept getting entangled among the branches and every now and then she had to stop and untwist it after a while she remembered that she still held the pieces of mushroom in her hands and she set to work very carefully nibbling first at one and then at the other and growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter
until she had succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height. It was so long since she had been anything near the right size that it felt quite strange at first, but she got used to it in a few minutes and began talking to herself as usual. Come, there's half my plan done now. How puzzling all these changes are! I'm never sure what I'm going to be from one minute to another. However, I've got back to my right size. The next thing is to get into that beautiful garden.
How is that to be done, I wonder? As she said this, she came suddenly upon an open place, with a little house in it about four feet high. Whoever lives there, thought Alice, it'll never do to come upon them this size. Why, I should frighten them out of their wits. So she began nibbling at the right-hand bit again, and did not venture to go near the house till she had brought herself down to nine inches high.
Longmont, Colorado.
For a minute or two she stood looking at the house and wondering what to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came running out of the wood.
she considered him a footman because he was in livery otherwise judging by his face only she would have called him a fish and rapped loudly at the door with his knuckles it was opened by another footman in livery with a round face and large eyes like a frog and both footmen alice noticed had powdered hair and curls all over their head she felt very curious to know what it was all about and crept a little way out of the wood to listen
the fish footman began by producing from under his arm a great letter nearly as large as himself and this he handed over to the other saying in a solemn tone for the duchess an invitation from the queen to play croquet the frog footman repeated in the same solemn tone only changing the order of the words a little from the queen an invitation for the duchess to play croquet then they both bowed and their curls got entangled together alice laughed so much at this that she had to run back into the wood for fear of their hearing her
and when she next peeped out the fish footman was gone and the other was sitting on the ground near the door staring stupidly up into the sky alice went timidly up to the door and knocked there's no sort of use in knocking said the footman and that for two reasons first because i am on the same side of the door as you secondly because they are making such a noise inside that no one could possibly hear you
and certainly there was a most extraordinary noise going on within a constant howling and sneezing and every now and then a great crash as if a dish or a kettle had been broken to pieces please then said alice how am i to get in there might be some sense in your knocking the footman went on without attending to her if we had a door between us for instance if you were inside you might knock and i could let you out you know he was looking up into the sky all the time he was speaking and this alice thought decidedly uncivil
But perhaps he can't help it, she said to herself. His eyes are so very nearly at the top of his head. But at any rate, he might answer questions. How am I to get in? she repeated aloud. I shall sit here, the footman remarked, till tomorrow. At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate came skimming out straight for the footman's head. It just grazed his nose and broke to pieces against one of the trees behind him. Or next day, maybe.
The footman continued in the same tone, exactly as if nothing had happened. How am I to get in? asked Alice, in a louder tone. Are you to get in at all? said the footman. That's the first question, you know. It was no doubt, only Alice did not like to be told so. It's really dreadful, she muttered to herself, the way all these creatures argue. It's enough to drive one crazy. The footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for repeating his remark, with variations.
i shall sit here he said on and off for days and days but what am i to do said alice anything you like said the footman and began whistling there's no use in talking to him said alice desperately he's perfectly idiotic and then opened the door and went in the door led right into a large kitchen which was full of smoke from one end to the other the duchess was sitting on a three-legged stool in the middle nursing a baby the cook was leaning over the fire stirring a large cauldron which seemed to be full of soup
there's certainly too much pepper in that soup alice said to herself as well as she could for sneezing there certainly was too much of it in the air even the duchess sneezed occasionally and as for the baby it was sneezing and howling alternately without a moment's pause the only two creatures in the kitchen that did not sneeze were the cook and the large cat which was laying on the hearth and grinning from ear to ear please would you tell me said alice a little timidly for she was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to speak first why your cat grins like that
it's a cheshire cat said the duchess and that's why pig she said the last word with such sudden violence that alice quite jumped but she saw in another moment that it was addressed to the baby and not to her so she took courage and went on again i didn't know that cheshire cats always grinned in fact i didn't know that cats could grin they all can said the duchess and most of em do
i don't know any that do said alice very politely feeling quite pleased to have gotten into a conversation you don't know much said the duchess and that's a fact alice did not like at all the tone of this remark and thought it would be as well to introduce some other subject of conversation while she was trying to fix on one the cook took the caldron of soup off the fire and at once set to work throwing everything within her reach at the duchess and the baby
the fire-irons came first then followed a shower of saucepans plates and dishes the duchess took no notice of them even when they hit her and the baby was howling so much already that it was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not oh please mind what you're doing cried alex jumping up and down in agony of terror oh there goes his precious nose as an unusually large saucepan flew by and very nearly carried it off
If everybody minded their own business, said the Duchess in a hoarse growl, the world would go around a deal faster than it does. Which would not be an advantage, said Alice, who felt very glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her knowledge. Just think of what work it would make of her the day and night. You see, the earth takes 24 hours to turn around on its axis. Talking of axis, said the Duchess, chop off her head.
alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook to see if she meant to take the hint but the cook was busily stirring the soup and seemed not to be listening she went on again twenty-four hours i think or is it twelve i oh don't bother me said the duchess i never could abide figures and with this she began nursing the child again singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so and giving a violent shake at the end of every line
speak roughly to your little boy and beat him when he sneezes he only does it to annoy because he knows it teases and then the chorus in which the cook and the baby joined
while the duchess sang the second verse of the song she kept tossing the baby violently up and down and the poor little thing howled so that alice could hardly hear the words i speak severely to my boy and beat him when he sneezes for he can thoroughly enjoy the pepper when he pleases wow wow wow here you might nurse it a bit if you like the duchess said to alice flinging the baby at her as she spoke i must go and get ready to play croquet with the queen
and she hurried out of the room, and the cook threw a frying pan after her as she went, but just missed her. Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all directions. Just like a starfish, thought Alice. The poor little thing was snorting like a steam engine when she caught it, and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again, so that altogether, for the first minute or two, it was as much as she could do to hold it.
as soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it which was to twist it up in a sort of knot and then keep tight hold of its rear end and left foot so as to prevent its undoing itself she carried it into the open air if i don't take this child away from me thought alice they're sure to kill it in a day or two wouldn't it be murder to leave it behind she said the last words out loud and the little thing grunted in reply it had left off sneezing by this time don't grunt said alice that's not at all a proper way of expressing yourself
the baby grunted again and alice looked very anxiously into its face to see what was the matter with it there could be no doubt that it had a very turn-up nose which was more like a snout than a real nose also its eyes were getting extremely small for a baby altogether alice did not like the look of the thing at all but perhaps it's only sobbing she thought and looked into its eyes again to see if there were any tears no there were no tears
if you're going to turn into a pig my dear said alice seriously i've got nothing more to do with you mind now the poor little thing sobbed again or grunted it was impossible to say which and then went on for some while in silence alice was just beginning to think to herself now what am i supposed to do with this creature when i get home when it grunted again so violently that she looked down into its face with some alarm this time there could be no mistake about it it was neither more nor less than a pig
and she felt that it would be quite absurd for her to carry it any further so she let the little creature down and felt quite relieved to see it trot away quietly into the woods if it had grown up she said to herself it would have made a dreadfully ugly child but it makes a rather handsome pig i think and she began thinking of her other children she knew who might do very well as pigs and was just saying to herself if one only knew the right way to change them when she was a little startled by seeing the cheshire cat sitting on the bough of a tree just a few yards off
The cat only grinned when it saw Alice, and it looked good-natured, she thought. Still, it had very long claws and a great many teeth, so she felt that it ought to be treated with respect. Cheshire Puss, she began rather timidly, and she did not at all know whether it would like the name. However, it only grinned a little wider. Come, it's pleased so far, thought Alice, and she went on. Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?
that depends a good deal on where you want to go said the cat i don't much care where said alice then it doesn't matter which way you go said the cat so as long as i go somewhere alice added with explanation oh you're sure to do that said the cat if only you walk long enough alice felt that this could not be denied so she tried another question what sort of people live about here
in that direction the cat said waving its right paw round lives a hatter and in that direction waving the other paw lives a march hare visit either you like they're both mad but i don't want to go among mad people alice remarked oh you can't help that said the cat we're all mad here i'm mad you're mad how do you know i'm mad said alice you must be said the cat or you wouldn't have come here
Alice didn't think that proved it at all. However, she went on. And how do you know that you're mad? To begin with, said the cat, a dog's not mad. You grant that? I suppose so, said Alice. Well then, the cat went on, you see, a dog growls when it's angry and wags its tail when it's pleased. Now, I growl when I'm pleased and wag my tail when I'm angry. Therefore, I'm mad.
I call it purring, not growling, said Alice. Call it what you like, said the cat. Do you play croquet with the queen today? I should like it very much, said Alice, but I haven't been invited yet. You'll see me there, said the cat, and vanished. Alice was not much surprised at this. She was getting so well used to the queer things happening. While she was still looking at the place where it had been, it suddenly appeared again. By the by...
what became of the baby said the cat i'd nearly forgotten to ask it turned into a pig alice answered very quietly just as if the cat had come back in a natural way i thought it would said the cat and vanished again alice waited a little half expecting to see it again but it did not appear after a minute or two she walked on in the direction in which the march hare was said to live
I've seen hatters before, she said to herself. The March Hare will be much more interesting, and perhaps, as this is May, it won't be raving mad. At least, not so mad as it was in March. As she said this, she looked up, and there was the cat again, sitting on the branch of a tree. Did you say pig or fig? said the cat. I said pig, replied Alice, and I wish that you wouldn't keep appearing and vanishing so suddenly. You make one quite giddy.
All right, said the cat, and this time it vanished quite slowly, beginning with the end of the tail and ending with the grin, which remained some time after the rest of it had gone. Well, I've often seen a cat without a grin, thought Alice, but a grin without a cat? It's the most curious thing I ever saw in all my life. She had not gone much further before she came inside of the house of the March Hare. She thought it must be the right house because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was thatched with fur.
it was such a large house that she did not like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the left-hand bit of mushroom and she raised herself about two feet high even then she walked up towards it rather timidly saying to herself suppose it should be raving mad after all i almost wish i had gone to the hatter instead chapter six
CHAPTER VII A MAD TEA-PARTY
there was a table set out under a tree in front of the house and the march hare and the hatter were having tea at it a dormouse was sitting between them fast asleep and the other two were using it as a cushion resting their elbows on it and talking over its head very uncomfortable for the dormouse thought alice only as it's asleep i suppose it doesn't mind
the table was a large one but the three were all crowded together at one corner of it no room no room they cried out when they saw alice coming there's plenty of room said alice indignantly and she sat down in a large arm-chair at one end of the table have some wine the march hare said in an encouraging tone alice looked all round the table but there was nothing on it but tea i don't see any wine
she remarked there isn't any said the march hare then it wasn't very civil of you to offer it said alice angrily it wasn't very civil of you to sit down without being invited said the march hare i didn't know it was your table said alice it's laid for a great many more than three your hare wants cutting said the hatter he had been looking at alice for some time with great curiosity and this was his first speech
you should learn not to make personal remarks alice said with some severity it's very rude the hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this but all he said was why is a raven like a writing-desk come we shall have some fun now thought alice i'm glad they've begun asking riddles i believe i can guess that she added aloud do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it
said the March Hare. "'Exactly so,' said Alice. "'Then you should say what you mean,' the March Hare went on. "'I do,' Alice hastily replied. "'At least—at least I mean what I say. That's the same thing, you know.' "'Not the same thing a bit,' said the Hatter. "'You might just as well say that I see what I eat is the same thing as I eat what I see.'
you might just as well say added the march hare that i like what i get is the same thing as i get what i like you might just as well say added the dormouse who seemed to be talking in his sleep that i breathe when i sleep is the same thing as i sleep when i breathe it is the same thing with you said the hatter and here the conversation dropped
and the party sat silent for a minute while alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and writing-desks which wasn't much the hatter was the first to break the silence what day of the month is it he said turning to alice he had taken his watch out of his pocket and was looking at it uneasily shaking it every now and then and holding it to his ear alice considered a little and then said the fourth
two days wrong sighed the hatter i told you butter wouldn't suit the works he added looking angrily at the march hare it was the best butter the march hare meekly replied yes but some crumbs must have got in as well the hatter grumbled you shouldn't have put it in with the bread-knife the march hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily then he dipped it into his cup of tea and looked at it again
but he could think of nothing better to say than his first remark it was the best butter you know alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity what a funny watch she remarked it tells the day of the month and doesn't tell what o'clock it is why should it muttered the hatter does your watch tell you what year it is of course not alice replied very readily
but that's because it stays the same year for such a long time together which is just the case with mine said the hatter alice felt dreadfully puzzled the hatter's remark seemed to have no sort of meaning in it and yet it was certainly english i don't quite understand you she said as politely as she could the dormouse is asleep again said the hatter and he poured a little hot tea upon its nose
the dormouse shook its head impatiently and said without opening its eyes of course of course just what i was going to remark myself have you guessed the riddle yet the hatter said turning to alice again no i give it up alice replied what's the answer i haven't the slightest idea said the hatter nor i said the march hare alice sighed wearily
i think you might do something better with the time she said than waste it in asking riddles that have no answers if you knew time as well as i do said the hatter you wouldn't talk about wasting it it's him i don't know what you mean said alice of course you don't the hatter said tossing his head contemptuously i daresay you never even spoke to time perhaps not
alice cautiously replied but i know i have to beat time when i learn music ah that accounts for it said the hatter he won't stand beating now if you only kept on good terms with him he'd do almost anything you liked with the clock for instance suppose it were nine o'clock in the morning just time to begin lessons you'd only have to whisper a hint to time and round goes the clock in a twinkling
half-past one time for dinner i only wish it was the march hare said to itself in a whisper that would be grand certainly said alice thoughtfully but then i shouldn't be hungry for it you know not at first perhaps said the hatter but you could keep it to half-past one as long as you liked is that the way you manage alice asked the hatter shook his head mournfully
not i he replied we quarrelled last march just before he went mad you know pointing with his tea-spoon at the march hare it was at the great concert given by the queen of hearts and i had to sing twinkle twinkle little bat how i wonder what you're at you know the song perhaps i've heard something like it said alice it goes on you know the hatter continued
in this way up above the world you fly like a tea-tray in the sky twinkle twinkle here the dormouse shook itself and began singing in its sleep twinkle twinkle twinkle twinkle and went on so long that they had to pinch it to make it stop well i'd hardly finished the first verse said the hatter when the queen jumped up and bawled out
he's murdering the time off with his head how dreadfully savage exclaimed alice and ever since that the hatter went on in a mournful tone he won't do a thing i ask it's always six o'clock now a bright idea came into alice's head is that the reason so many tea things are put out here she asked yes that's it said the hatter with a sigh
it's always tea-time and we've no time to wash the things between whiles then you keep moving round i suppose said alice exactly so said the hatter as the things get used up but what happens when you come to the beginning again alice ventured to ask suppose we change the subject the march hare interrupted yawning i'm getting tired of this
i vote the young lady tells us a story i'm afraid i don't know one said alice rather alarmed at the proposal then the dormouse shall they both cried wake up dormouse and they pinched it on both sides at once the dormouse slowly opened his eyes i wasn't asleep he said in a hoarse feeble voice i heard every word you fellows were saying
tell us a story said the march hare yes please do pleaded alice and be quick about it added the hatter or you'll be asleep again before it's done once upon a time there were three little sisters the dormouse began in a great hurry and their names were elsie lacey and tillie and they lived at the bottom of a well what did they live on said alice
who always took a great interest in questions of eating and drinking they lived on treacle said the dormouse after thinking a minute or two they couldn't have done that you know alice gently remarked they'd have been ill so they were said the dormouse very ill alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary way of living would be like but it puzzled her too much
So she went on, But why did they live at the bottom of a well? Take some more tea, the March Hare said to Alice very earnestly. I've had nothing yet, Alice replied in an offended tone. So I can't take more. You mean you can't take less, said the Hatter. It's very easy to take more than nothing. Nobody asked your opinion, said Alice. Who's making personal remarks now?
the hatter asked triumphantly alice did not quite know what to say to this so she helped herself to some tea and bread and butter and then turned to the dormouse and repeated her question why did they live at the bottom of a well the dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it and then said it was a treacle well there's no such thing alice was beginning very angrily
but the hatter and the march hare went sh sh and the dormouse sulkily remarked if you can't be civil you'd better finish the story for yourself no please go on alice said very humbly i won't interrupt again i daresay there may be one one indeed said the dormouse indignantly however he consented to go on
and so these three little sisters they were learning to draw you know what did they draw said alice quite forgetting her promise treacle said the dormouse without considering at all this time i want a clean cup interrupted the hatter let's all move one place on he moved on as he spoke and the dormouse followed him
the march hare moved into the dormouse's place and alice rather unwillingly took the place of the march hare the hatter was the only one who got any advantage from the change and alice was a good deal worse off than before as the march hare had just upset the milk-jug into his plate alice did not wish to offend the dormouse again so she began very cautiously but i don't understand where did they draw the treacle from
you can draw water out of a water-well said the hatter so i should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well eh stupid but they were in the well alice said to the dormouse not choosing to notice this last remark of course they were said the dormouse well in this answer so confused poor alice that she let the dormouse go on for some time without interrupting it
they were learning to draw the dormouse went on yawning and rubbing its eyes for it was getting very sleepy and they drew all manner of things everything that begins with an m why with an m said alice why not said the march hare alice was silent the dormouse had closed its eyes by this time and was going off into a doze
but on being pinched by the hatter it woke up again with a little shriek and went on that begins with an m such as mousetraps and the moon and memory and muchness you know you say things are much of a muchness did you ever see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness really now you ask me said alice very much confused i don't think
then you shouldn't talk said the hatter this piece of rudeness was more than alice could bear she got up in great disgust and walked off the dormouse fell asleep instantly and neither of the others took the least notice of her going though she looked back once or twice half hoping that they would call after her the last time she saw them they were trying to put the dormouse into the teapot
at any rate i'll never go there again said alice as she picked her way through the wood it's the stupidest tea-party i ever was at in all my life just as she said this she noticed that one of the trees had a door leading right into it that's very curious she thought but everything's curious to-day i think i may as well go in at once and in she went
once more she found herself in the long hall and close to the little glass table now i'll manage better this time she said to herself and began by taking the little golden key and unlocking the door that led into the garden then she went to work nibbling at the mushroom she had kept a piece of it in her pocket till she was about a foot high then she walked down the little passage and then
she found herself at last in the beautiful garden among the bright flower-beds and the cool fountains chapter seven recorded on november eleventh two thousand five in oceanside california
CHAPTER VIII. The Queen's Croquet Ground. A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden. The roses growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at it, busily painting them red.
alice thought this a very curious thing and she went nearer to watch them and just as she came up to them she heard one of them say look out now five don't go splashing paint all over me like that i couldn't help it said five in a sulky tone seven jogged my elbow on which seven looked up and said that's right five always lay the blame on others you'd better not talk said five i heard the queen say only yesterday you deserved to be beheaded
what for said the one who had spoken first that's none of your business too said seven yes it is his business said five and i'll tell him it was for bringing the cook tulip roots instead of onions seven flung down his brush and had just begun well of all the unjust things when his eye chanced to fall upon alice as she stood watching them and he checked himself suddenly
the others looked round also and all of them bowed low would you tell me said alice a little timidly why are you painting those roses five and seven said nothing but looked at two two began in a low voice why the fact is you see miss this here ought to have been a red-rose tree
and we put a white one in by mistake, and if the queen was to find out, we should all have our heads cut off, you know. So you see, miss, we're doing our best before she comes to... At this moment, Five, who'd been anxiously looking across the garden, called out, The queen! The queen! And the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon their faces. There was a sound of many footsteps, and Alice looked round, eager to see the queen. First came ten soldiers, carrying clubs.
They were all shaped like the three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and feet at the corners. Next, the ten courtiers. These were ornamented all over with diamonds, and walked two and two, as the soldiers did. After these came the royal children. There were ten of them, and the little dears came jumping merrily along, hand in hand, in couples. They were all ornamented with hearts. Next came the guests.
mostly kings and queens, and among them Alice recognized the white rabbit. It was talking in a hurried, nervous manner, smiling at everything that was said, and went by without noticing her. Then followed the knave of hearts, carrying the king's crown on a crimson velvet cushion, and last of all this grand procession came the king and queen of hearts. Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not lie down on her face like the three gardeners, but she could not remember ever having heard of such a rule at processions.
and besides what would be the use of a procession thought she if people all had to lie down upon their faces so they couldn't see it so she stood still where she was and waited when the procession came opposite to alice they all stopped and looked at her and the queen said severely who is this she said it to the knave of hearts who only bowed and smiled in reply idiot said the queen tossing her head impatiently and turning to alice she went on what's your name child
"'My name is Alice, so please your majesty,' said Alice very politely, but she added to herself, "'Why, they're only a pack of cards, after all. I needn't be afraid of them.' "'And who are these?' said the Queen, pointing to the three gardeners who were lying round the rose-tree, for, you see, as they were all lying on their faces, and the pattern on their backs was the same as the rest of the pack, she could not tell whether they were her gardeners, or soldiers, or courtiers, or three of her own children. "'How should I know?'
said Alice, surprised at her own courage. It's no business of mine. The queen turned crimson with fury, and after glaring at her for a moment like a wild beast, screamed, Off with her head! Off! Nonsense! said Alice, very loudly and decidedly, and the queen was silent. The king laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said, Consider, my dear, she is only a child. The queen turned angrily away from him, and said to the knave, Turn them over!
The knave did so very carefully, with one foot. "'Get up!' said the queen, in a shrill, loud voice, and the three gardeners instantly jumped up and began bowing to the king, the queen, the royal children, and everybody else. "'Leave off that!' screamed the queen. "'You make me giddy!' And then, turning to the rose-tree, she went on, "'What have you been doing here?' "'May it please your majesty,' said two, in a very humble tone, going down on one knee as he spoke. "'We were trying—'
"'I see,' said the queen, who had meanwhile been examining the roses. "'Off with their heads!' And the procession moved on, three of the soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate gardeners, who ran to Alice for protection. "'You shan't be beheaded,' said Alice, and she put them into a large flower-pot that stood near. The three soldiers wandered about for a minute or two looking for them, and then quietly marched off after the others. "'Are their heads off?' shouted the queen.
Their heads are gone, if it please your majesty, the soldiers shouted in reply. That's right, shouted the queen. Can you play croquet? The soldiers were silent and looked at Alice, as the question was evidently meant for her. Yes, shouted Alice. Come on, then, roared the queen, and Alice joined the procession, wondering very much what would happen next. It's a very fine day, said a timid voice at her side. She was walking by the white rabbit, who was peeping anxiously into her face.
"'Very,' said Alice. "'Where's the Duchess?' "'Whoosh! whoosh!' said the rabbit, in a low, hurried tone. He looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised himself upon Tiptoe, put his mouth close to her ear, and whispered, "'She's under sentence of execution.' "'What for?' said Alice. "'Did you say, what a pity?' the rabbit asked. "'No, I didn't,' said Alice. "'I don't think it's at all a pity. I said, what for?' "'She boxed the Queen's ears.'
the rabbit began alice gave a little scream of laughter oh hush the rabbit whispered in a frightened tone the queen will hear you you see she came rather late and the queen said get to your places shouted the queen in a voice of thunder and people began running about in all directions tumbling up against each other however they got settled down in a minute or two and the game began
alice thought she had never seen such a curious croquet ground in her life it was all ridges and furrows the balls were live hedgehogs the mallets live flamingoes and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to stand on their hands and feet to make the arches
the chief difficulty alice found at first was in managing her flamingo she succeeded in getting its body tucked away comfortably enough under her arm with its legs hanging down but generally just as she got its neck nicely straightened out and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head it would twist itself round and look up in her face with such a puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing
and when she got its head down and she was going to begin again, it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled itself and was in the act of crawling away. Besides all this, there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she wanted to send the hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the ground, Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very difficult game indeed. The players all played at once, without waiting for turns, quarrelling all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs.
and in a very short time the queen was in a furious fashion and went stamping about and shouting off with his head off with her head about once in a minute alice began to feel very uneasy to be sure she had not as yet had any dispute with the queen but she knew that it might happen any minute and then thought she what would become of me they're dreadfully fond of beheading people here the great wonder is that there's any one left alive
she was looking about for some way of escape and wondering whether she could get away without being seen when she noticed a curious appearance in the air it puzzled her very much at first but after watching it a minute or two she made it out to be a grin and she said to herself it's the cheshire cat now i shall have somebody to talk to how are you getting on said the cat as soon as there was mouth enough for it to speak with alice waited till the eyes appeared and then nodded
it's no use speaking to it she thought till its ears have come or at least one of them in another minute the whole head appeared and then alice put down her flamingo and began an account of the game feeling very glad she had some one to listen to her the cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight and no more of it appeared i don't think they play at all fairly alice began in rather a complaining tone and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can't hear oneself speak
and they don't seem to have any rules in particular at least if there are nobody attends to them and you've no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive for instance there's the arch i've got to go through next walking about at the other end of the ground and i should have croqueted the queen's hedgehog just now only it ran away when it saw mine coming how do you like the queen said the cat in a low voice not at all said alice she's so extremely
Just then she noticed that the queen was close behind her, listening, so she went on, Likely to win, but it's hardly worth while finishing the game. The queen smiled and passed on. Who are you talking to? said the king, going up to Alice and looking at the cat's head with great curiosity. It's a friend of mine, a Cheshire cat, said Alice. Allow me to introduce it. I don't like the look of it at all, said the king. However, it may kiss my hand if it likes. I'd rather not.
the cat remarked don't be impertinent said the king and don't look at me like that he got behind alice as he spoke a cat may look at a king said alice i've read that in some book but i don't remember where well it must be removed said the king very decidedly and he called the queen who was passing at the moment my dear i wish you would have this cat removed the queen had only one way of settling all difficulties great or small off with his head she said without even looking round
i'll fetch the executioner myself said the king eagerly and he hurried off alice thought she might as well go back and see how the game was going on as she heard the queen's voice in the distance screaming with passion she'd already heard her sentence three of the players to be executed for having missed their turns and she did not like the look of things at all as the game was in such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or not so she went in search of her hedgehog
The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog, which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one of them with the other. The only difficulty was that her flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up into a tree. By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back, the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight. But it doesn't matter much, thought Alice, as all the arches are gone from this side of the ground.
so she tucked it away under her arm that it might not escape again, and went back for a little more conversation with her friend. When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to find quite a large crowd collected around it. There was a dispute going on between the executioner, the king, and the queen, who were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent and looked very uncomfortable.
the moment alice appeared she was appealed to by all three to settle the question and they repeated their arguments to her though as they all spoke at once she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they said the executioner's argument was you couldn't cut off a head unless there was a body to cut it off from that he had never had to do such a thing before and he wasn't going to begin at his time of life the king's argument was that anything that had a head could be beheaded and that you weren't to talk nonsense
The Queen's argument was that if something wasn't done about it in less than no time, she'd had everybody executed all around. It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so grave and anxious. Alice could think of nothing else to say, but, It belongs to the Duchess. You'd better ask her about it. She's in prison, the Queen said to the executioner. Fetch her here. And the executioner went off like an arrow.
The cat's head began fading away the moment he was gone, and by the time he had come back with the duchess, it had entirely disappeared. So the king and the executioner ran wildly up and down looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.
You can't think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old thing!
said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately into Alice's, and they walked off together. Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had made her so savage when they met in the kitchen. When I'm a Duchess, she said to herself, not in a very hopeful tone, though, I won't have any pepper in my kitchen at all. Soup does very well without—
Maybe it's always pepper that makes people hot-tempered, she went on, very much pleased at having found out a new kind of rule, and vinegar that makes them sour, and chamomile that makes them bitter, and barley sugar and such things that make children sweet-tempered. I only wish people knew that, then they wouldn't be so stingy about it, you know. She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a little startled when she heard her voice.
close to her ear. You're thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you forget to talk. I can't tell you just now what the moral of that is, but I shall remember it in a bit. Perhaps it hasn't one, Alice ventured to remark. Tut, tut, child, said the Duchess, everything's got a moral, if only you can find it. And she squeezed herself up closer to Alice's side as she spoke. Alice did not much like keeping so close to her. First,
"'because the Duchess was very ugly, "'and secondly, because she was exactly the right height "'to rest her chin upon Alice's shoulder, "'and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin. "'However, she did not like to be rude, "'so she bored as well as she could. "'The game's going on rather better now,' she said, "'by way of keeping up the conversation a little. "'Tis so,' said the Duchess, "'and the moral of that is, "'Oh, tis love, tis love that makes the world go round.'"
somebody said alice whispered that it's done by everybody minding their own business ah well it means much the same thing said the duchess digging her sharp little chin into alice's shoulder as she added and the moral of that is take care of the scents and the sounds will take care of themselves how fond she is of finding morals in things alice thought to herself
"'I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your waist,' the Duchess said after a pause. "'The reason is that I'm doubtful about the temper of your flamingo. Shall I try the experiment?' "'He might bite,' Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all anxious to have the experiment tried. "'Very true,' said the Duchess. "'Flamingos and mustard both bite. And the moral of that is, birds of a feather flock together.'
"'Only mustard isn't a bird,' Alice remarked. "'Right as usual,' said the Duchess. "'What a clear way you have of putting things!' "'It's a mineral, I think,' said Alice. "'Of course it is,' said the Duchess, "'who seemed ready to agree to everything that Alice said. "'There's a large mustard mine near here, "'and the moral of that is, "'the more there is of mine, the less there is of yours.' "'Oh, I know!'
exclaimed alice who had not attended to this last remark it's a vegetable it doesn't look like one but it is i quite agree with you said the duchess and the moral of that is be what you would seem to be or if you'd like it put more simply
Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than what it might appear to others that what you were or might have been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared to them to be otherwise. I think I should understand that better, Alice said very politely, if I had it written down. But I can't quite follow it as you say it. That's nothing to what I could say if I chose, the Duchess replied in a pleased tone.
Pray, don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that, said Alice. Oh, don't talk about trouble, said the Duchess. I make you a present of everything I've said as yet. A cheap sort of present, thought Alice. I'm glad they don't give birthday presents like that. But she did not venture to say it out loud. Thinking again, the Duchess asked, with another dig of her sharp little chin, I've a right to think.
said Alice sharply, for she was beginning to feel a little worried. Just about as much right, said the Duchess, as pigs have to fly. And the moral— But here, to Alice's great surprise, the Duchess's voice died away, even in the middle of her favorite word, moral, and the arm that was linked into hers began to tremble. Alice looked up, and there stood the Queen in front of them, with her arms folded, frowning like a thunderstorm.
a fine day your majesty the duchess began in a low weak voice now i give you fair warning shouted the queen stamping on the ground as she spoke either you or your head must be off and that in about half no time take your choice the duchess took her choice and was gone in a moment let's go on with the game the queen said to alice
and Alice was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her back to the croquet ground. The other guests had taken advantage of the queen's absence, and were resting in the shade. However, the moment they saw her, they hurried back to the game, the queen merely remarking that a moment's delay would cost them their lives. All the time they were playing, the queen never left off quarreling with the other players, and shouting, Off with his head! or Off with her head!
Those whom she sentenced were taken into custody by the soldiers, who, of course, had to leave off being archers to do this, so that by the end of half an hour or so there were no archers left, and all the players except the king, the queen, and Alice were in custody and under sentence of execution. Then the queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to Alice, Have you seen the mock turtle yet? No, said Alice.
"'I don't even know what a mock turtle is.' "'It's the thing mock turtle soup is made from,' said the queen. "'I never saw one, or heard of one,' said Alice. "'Come on, then,' said the queen, "'and he shall tell you his history.' As they walked off together, Alice heard the king say, in a low voice, to the company generally, "'You are all pardoned.'
Come that's a good thing, she said to herself, for she had felt quite unhappy at the number of executions the queen had ordered. They very soon came upon a griffin, lying fast asleep in the sun. If you don't know what a griffin is, look at the picture. Up, lazy thing, said the queen, and take this young lady to see the mock turtle, and to hear his history. I must go back and see after some executions I have ordered.
And she walked off, leaving Alice alone with the griffin. Alice did not quite like the look of the creature, but on the whole she thought it would be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage queen. So she waited. The griffin sat up and rubbed its eyes. Then it watched the queen till she was out of sight. Then it chuckled. What fun, said the griffin, half to itself, half to Alice. What is the fun, said Alice. Why, she, said the griffin.
"'It's all her fancy, that. They never execute nobody, you know. Come on.' "'Everybody says come on here,' thought Alice, as she went slowly after it. "'I never was so ordered about in all my life, never.' They had not gone far before they saw the mock turtle in the distance, sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock. And as they came nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart would break. She pitied him deeply. "'What is his sorrow?'
She asked the griffin, and the griffin answered, very nearly in the same words as before. It's all his fancy, that. He hasn't got no sorrow, you know. Come on. So they went up to the mock turtle, who looked at them with large eyes full of tears, but said nothing. This here young lady, said the griffin, she wants for to know your history, she do. I'll tell it her, said the mock turtle, in a deep hollow tone.
Sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've finished. So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes. Alice thought to herself, I don't see how he can even finish if he doesn't begin. But she waited patiently. Once, said the mock turtle at last, with a deep sigh, I was a real turtle. These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only by an occasional exclamation of, from the griffin.
and the constant heavy sobbing of the mock turtle. Alice was very nearly getting up and saying, Thank you, sir, for your interesting story. But she could not help thinking there must be more to come, so she sat still and said nothing. When we were little, the mock turtle went on at last, more calmly, though still sobbing a little now and then. We went to school in the sea. The master was an old turtle.
We used to call him Tortoise. Why did you call him Tortoise if he wasn't one? Alice asked. We called him Tortoise because he taught us, said the Mock Turtle angrily. Really, you are very dull. You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple question, added the Gryphon. And then they both sat silent and looked at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth. At last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle,
"'Drive on, old fellow. Don't be all day about it.' And he went on in these words. "'Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn't believe it.' "'I never said I didn't,' interrupted Alice. "'You did,' said the Mock Turtle. "'Hold your tongue,' added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak again. The Mock Turtle went on. "'We had the best of educations. In fact, we went to school every day.'
i've been to a day-school too said alice you needn't be so proud as all that with extras asked the mock turtle a little anxiously yes said alice we learned french and music and washing said the mock turtle certainly not said alice indignantly ah then yours wasn't a really good school said the mock turtle in a tone of great relief now at ours
They had at the end of the bill French, music, and washing. Extra. You couldn't have wanted it much, said Alice, living at the bottom of the sea. I couldn't afford to learn it, said the Mock Turtle with a sigh. I only took the regular course. What was that? inquired Alice. Reeling and writhing, of course, to begin with, the Mock Turtle replied.
And then the different branches of arithmetic. Ambition, distraction, uglification, and derision. I never heard of uglification, Alice ventured to say. What is it? The griffon lifted up both its paws in surprise. What? Never heard of uglifying? It exclaimed. You know what to beautify is, I suppose. Yes, said Alice doubtfully. It means...
To make anything prettier. Well then, the griffon went on, if you don't know what to uglify is, you are a simpleton. Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about it, so she turned to the mock turtle and said, What else had you to learn? Well, there was mystery, the mock turtle replied, counting off the subjects on his flappers.
mystery ancient and modern with seaography then drawling the drawling master was an old conger eel that used to come once a week he taught us drawling stretching and fainting in coils what was that like said alice well i can't show it you myself the mock turtle said i'm too stiff and the griffin never learnt it
Hadn't time, said the griffin. I went to the classic's master, though. He was an old crab, he was. I never went to him, the mock turtle said with a sigh. He taught laughing and grief, they used to say. So he did, so he did, said the griffin, sighing in his turn, and both creatures hid their faces in their paws. How many hours a day did you do lessons? said Alice, in a hurry to change the subject. Ten hours the first day.
said the Mock Turtle. Nine the next, and so on. What a curious plan, exclaimed Alice. That's the reason they're called lessons, the griffon remarked, because they lesson from day to day. This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a little before she made her next remark. Then, the eleventh day must have been a holiday. Of course it was, said the Mock Turtle. And how did you manage on the twelfth?
Alice went on eagerly. That's enough about lessons, the griffon interrupted, in a very decided tone. Tell her something about the games now. End of chapter 9
CHAPTER X.
the lobster quadrille the mock turtle sighed deeply and drew the back of one flapper across his eyes he looked at alice and tried to speak but for a minute or two sobs choked his voice same as if he had a bone in his throat said the gryphon and it set to work shaking him
and punching him in the back at last the mock turtle recovered his voice and with tears running down his cheeks he went on again you may not have lived much under the sea i haven't said alice and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster alice began to say
i once tasted but checked herself hastily and said no never so you can have no idea what a delightful thing a lobster quadrille is no indeed said alice what sort of a dance is it why said the gryphon you first form into a line along the sea-shore
two lines cried the mock turtle seals turtles salmon and so on then when you've cleared all the jellyfish out of the way that generally takes some time interrupted the gryphon you advance twice each with a lobster as a partner cried the gryphon of course the mock turtle said
advance twice set to partners change lobsters and retire in the same order continued the gryphon then you know the mock turtle went on you throw the-the lobsters shouted the gryphon with a bound into the air as far out to sea as you can
swim after them screamed the griffin turn a somersault in the sea cried the mock turtle capering wildly about change lobsters again yelled the griffin at the top of his voice back to land again and that's all the first figure said the mock turtle suddenly dropping his voice and the two creatures
who had been jumping about like mad things all this time sat down again very sadly and quietly and looked at alice it must be a very pretty dance said alice timidly would you like to see a little of it said the mock turtle very much indeed said alice come
let's try the first figure said the mock turtle to the gryphon we can do without lobsters you know which shall sing oh you sing said the gryphon i've forgotten the words so they began solemnly dancing around and round alice every now and then
treading on her toes when they passed too close, and waving their forepaws to mark the time, while the mock turtle sang this very slowly and sadly. Will you walk a little faster? said a whiting to a snail. There's a porpoise close behind us, and he's treading on my tail.
see how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance they are waiting on the shingle will you come and join the dance will you won't you will you won't you will you join the dance will you won't you will you won't you won't you join the dance
how delightful it will be when they take us up and throw us with the lobsters out to sea but the snail replied too far too far and gave a look askance said he thanked the whiting kindly but he would not join the dance would not could not
would not could not would not join the dance would not could not would not could not could not join the dance what matters it how far we go his scaly friend replied there is another shore you know upon the other side the further off from england the nearer is to france
turn not pale beloved snail but come and join the dance will you won't you will you won't you will you join the dance will you won't you will you won't you won't you join the dance thank you it's a very interesting dance to watch said alice
feeling very glad that it was over at last and i do so like that curious song about the whiting oh as to the whiting said the mock turtle they you've seen them of course yes said alice i've often seen them at din she checked herself hastily
i don't know where din may be said the mock turtle but if you've seen them so often of course you know what they're like i believe so alice replied thoughtfully they have their tails in their mouths and they're all over crumbs you're wrong about the crumbs
said the mock turtle crumbs would all wash off in the sea but they have their tails in their mouths and the reason is here the mock turtle yawned and shut his eyes tell her about the reason and all that he said to the gryphon the reason is said the gryphon that they would
go with the lobsters to the dance so they got thrown out to sea so they had to fall a long way so they got their tails fast in their mouths so they couldn't get them out again that's all thank you said alice it's very interesting i never knew so much about a whiting before
i can tell you more than that if you like said the gryphon do you know why it's called a whiting i never thought about it said alice why it does the boots and shoes the gryphon replied very solemnly alice was thoroughly puzzled does the boots and shoes
she repeated in a wondering tone why what are your shoes done with said the gryphon i mean what makes them so shiny alice looked down at them and considered a little before she gave her answer they're done with blacking i believe
boots and shoes under the sea the gryphon went on in a deep voice are done with whiting now you know and what are they made of alice asked in a tone of great curiosity soles and eels of course the gryphon replied rather impatiently any shrimp
could have told you that if i'd been the whiting said alice whose thoughts were still running on the song i'd have said to the porpoise keep back please we don't want you with us they were obliged to have him with them the mock turtle said no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise
wouldn't it really said alice in a tone of great surprise of course not said the mock turtle why if a fish came to me and told me he was going on a journey i would say with what porpoise don't you mean purpose said alice
i mean what i say the mock turtle replied in an offended tone and the gryphon added come let's hear some of your adventures i could tell you my adventures beginning from this morning said alice a little timidly but it's no use going back to yesterday because
i was a different person then explain all that said the mock turtle no no the adventures first said the griffin in an impatient tone explanations take such a dreadful time so alice began telling them her adventures from the time when she first saw the white rabbit
she was a little nervous about it just at first the two creatures got so close to her one on each side and opened their eyes and mouths so very wide but she gained courage as she went on her listeners were perfectly quiet till she got to the part about her repeating
you are old father william to the caterpillar and the words all coming different and then the mock turtle drew a long breath and said that's very curious it's all about as curious as it can be said the gryphon it all came different the mock turtle repeated thoughtfully
i should like to hear her try and repeat something now tell her to begin he looked at the gryphon as if he thought it had some kind of authority over alice stand up and repeat tis the voice of the sluggard said the gryphon how the creatures order one about
and make one repeat lessons thought alice i might as well be at school at once however she got up and began to repeat it but her head was so full of the lobster quadrille that she hardly knew what she was saying and the words came very queer indeed tis the voice of the lobster i heard him declare
you have baked me too brown i must sugar my hair as a duck with its eyelids so he with his nose trims his belt and his buttons and turns out his toes when the sands are all dry he is gay as a lark and will talk in contemptuous tones of the shark
but when the tide rises and sharks are around his voice has a timid and tremulous sound that's different from what i used to say when i was a child said the gryphon well i never heard it before said the mock turtle but it sounds uncommon nonsense alice said nothing
she had sat down with her face in her hands wondering if anything would ever happen in a natural way again i should like to have it explained said the mock turtle she can't explain it said the gryphon hastily go on with the next verse but about his toes the mock turtle persisted
how could he turn them out with his nose you know it's the first position in dancing alice said but was dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing and longed to change the subject go on with the next verse the gryphon repeated impatiently it begins i passed by his garden
alice did not dare to disobey though she felt sure it would all come wrong and she went on in a trembling voice i passed by his garden and marked with one eye how the owl and the panther were sharing a pie the panther took pie crust and gravy
and meat while the owl had the dish as its share of the treat when the pie was all finished the owl as a boon was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon while the panther received knife and fork with a growl and concluded the banquet what is the use of repeating all that stuff
the mock turtle interrupted if you don't explain it as you go on it's by far the most confusing thing i ever heard yes i think you'd better leave off said the gryphon and alice was only too glad to do so shall we try another figure of the lobster quadrille the gryphon went on
or would you like the mock turtle to sing you a song oh a song please if the mock turtle would be so kind alice replied so eagerly that the griffin said in a rather offended tone h'm no accounting for tastes sing her turtle soup will you old fellow
the mock turtle sighed deeply and began in a voice sometimes choked with sobs to sing this beautiful soup so rich and green waiting in a hot tureen who for such dainties would not stoop soup of the evening
Beautiful soup. Soup of the evening. Beautiful soup. Beautiful soup. Beautiful soup of the evening. Beautiful, beautiful soup. Beautiful soup. Who cares for fish? Game.
or any other dish who would not give all else for two pennyworth only of beautiful soup pennyworth only of beautiful soup of the evening beautiful beautiful
soup chorus again cried the gryphon and the mock turtle had just begun to repeat it when a cry of the trial's beginning was heard in the distance come on cried the gryphon and taking alice by the hand it hurried off without waiting for the end of the song what trial is it
alice panted as she ran but the gryphon only answered come on and ran the faster while more and more faintly came carried on the breeze that followed them the melancholy words
CHAPTER XI. The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when they arrived, with a great crowd assembled about them.
all sorts of little birds and beasts as well as a whole pack of cards the knave was standing before them in chains with a soldier on each side to guard him and near the king was the white rabbit with a trumpet in one hand and a scroll of parchment in the other in the very middle of the court was a table with a large dish of tarts upon it they looked so good that it made alice quite hungry to look at them i wish they'd get the trial done she thought and hand round the refreshments
but there seemed to be no chance of this so she began looking at everything about her to pass away the time alice had never been in a court of justice before but she had read about them in books and she was quite pleased to find that she knew the name of nearly everything there that's the judge she said to herself because of his great wig the judge by the way was the king and as he wore his crown over the wig he did not look at all comfortable and it was certainly not becoming
and that's the jury-box thought alice and those twelve creatures she was obliged to say creatures you see because some of them were animals and some were birds i suppose they are the jurors she said this last word two or three times over to herself being rather proud of it for she thought and rightly too that very few little girls of her age knew the meaning of it at all however jurymen would have done just as well the twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates
what are they doing alice whispered to the gryphon they can't have anything to put down yet before the trial's begun they're putting down their names the gryphon whispered in reply for fear that they should forget them before the end of the trial stupid things alice began in a loud indignant voice but she stopped hastily for the white rabbit cried out silence in the court and the king put on his spectacles and looked anxiously round to make out who was talking
alice could see as well as if she were looking over their shoulders that all the jurors were writing down stupid things on their slates and she could even make out that one of them didn't know how to spell stupid and that he had to ask his neighbor to tell him a nice muddle their slates'll be in before the trial's over thought alice
one of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked this of course alice could not stand and she went round the court and got behind him and very soon found an opportunity of taking it away she did it so quickly that the poor little juror it was bill the lizard could not make out at all what had become of it so after hunting all about for it he was obliged to write with one finger for the rest of the day and this was of very little use as it left no mark on the slate harold read the accusation said the king
on this the white rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet and then enrolled the parchment scroll and read as follows the queen of hearts she made some tarts all on a summer day the knave of hearts he stole those tarts and took them quite away consider your verdict the king said to the jury not yet not yet the rabbit hastily interrupted there's a great deal to come before that call the first witness said the king and the white rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet and called out
"'First witness!' The first witness was the Hatter. He came in with a teacup in one hand, and a piece of bread and butter in the other. "'I beg pardon, Your Majesty,' he began, "'for bringing these in, but I hadn't quite finished my tea when I was sent for.' "'You ought to have finished,' said the King. "'When did you begin?' The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him into the court, arm in arm with the Dormouse. "'Fourteenth of March, I think it was,' he said.
"'Fifteenth,' said the March Hare. "'Sixteenth,' added the Dormouse. "'Write that down,' the King said to the jury, and the jury eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then added them up and reduced the answer to shillings and pence. "'Take off your hat,' the King said to the Hatter. "'It isn't mine,' said the Hatter. "'Stolen!' the King exclaimed, turning to the jury, who instantly made a memorandum of the fact. "'I keep them to sell,' the Hatter added, as an explanation. "'I've none of my own. I'm a Hatter.'
here the queen put on her spectacles and began staring at the hatter who turned pale and fidgeted give your evidence said the king and don't be nervous or i'll have you executed on the spot this did not seem to encourage the witness at all he kept shifting from one foot to the other looking uneasily at the queen and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his teacup instead of the bread and butter
just at this moment alice felt a very curious sensation which puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was she was beginning to grow larger again and she thought at first she would get up and leave the court but on second thoughts she decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for her i wish you wouldn't squeeze so said the dormouse who was sitting next to her i can hardly breathe i can't help it said alice very meekly i'm growing you've no right to grow here said the dormouse
don't talk nonsense said alice more boldly you know you're growing too yes but i grow at a reasonable pace said the dormouse not in that ridiculous fashion and he got up very sulkily and crossed over to the other side of the court all this time the queen had never left off staring at the hatter and just as the dormouse crossed the court she said to one of the officers of the court bring me the list of the singers in the last concert
on which the wretched hatter trembled so that he shook both his shoes off give your evidence the king repeated angrily or i'll have you executed whether you're nervous or not i'm a poor man your majesty the hatter began in a trembling voice and i hadn't begun my tea not above a week or so and what with the bread and butter getting so thin and the twinkling of the tea the twinkling of the what said the king it begun with the tea the hatter replied
of course twinkling begins with a t said the king sharply do take me for a dunce go on i'm a poor man the hatter went on and most things twinkled after that only the march hare said-i didn't the march hare interrupted in a great hurry you did said the hatter i deny it said the march hare he denies it said the king leave out that part well at any rate the door-mouse said the hatter went on looking anxiously round to see if he would deny it too
but the dormouse denied nothing, being fast asleep. After that, continued the hatter, I cut some more bread and butter. But what did the dormouse say? one of the jury asked. That I can't remember, said the hatter. You must remember, remarked the king, or I'll have you executed. The miserable hatter dropped his teacup and bread and butter and went down on one knee. I'm a poor man, your majesty, he began. You're a very poor speaker, said the king.
here one of the guinea-pigs cheered and was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court as that is rather a hard word i will just explain to you how it was done they had a large canvas bag which tied up at the mouth with strings into this they slipped the guinea-pig head first and then sat upon it i'm glad i've seen that done thought alice i've so often read in the newspapers at the end of trials there were some attempts at applause which was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court and i never understood what it meant till now
if that's all you know about it you may stand down continued the king i can't go no lower said the hatter i'm on the floor as it is then you may sit down the king replied here the other guinea-pig cheered and was suppressed come that finished the guinea-pigs thought alice now we shall get on better i'd rather finish my tea said the hatter with an anxious look at the queen who was reading the list of singers you may go said the king and the hatter hurriedly left the court without even waiting to put his shoes on
and just take his head off outside the queen added to one of the officers but the header was out of sight before the officer could get to the door call the next witness said the king the next witness was the duchess's cook she carried the pepper-box in her hand and alice guessed who it was even before she got into the court by the way the people near the door began sneezing all at once give your evidence said the king sant said the cook
the king looked anxiously at the white rabbit who said in a low voice your majesty must cross-examine this witness well if i must i must the king said with a melancholy air and after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till his eyes were nearly out of sight he said in a deep voice what are hearts made of pepper mostly said the cook treacle said a sleepy voice behind her call that to a mouse the queen shrieked out
behind that dormouse turn that dormouse out of court suppress him pinch him off with his whiskers for some minutes the whole court was in confusion getting the dormouse turned out and by the time they had settled down again the cook had disappeared never mind said the king with an air of great relief call the next witness and he added in an undertone to the queen really my dear you must cross-examine the next witness it quite makes my forehead ache
alice watched the white rabbit as he fumbled over the list feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like for they haven't gotten much evidence yet she said to herself imagine her surprise when the white rabbit read out at the top of his shrill little voice the name alice chapter
This is a LibriVox recording. All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain. For more information, please visit LibriVox.org. Today's reading, Alice's Adventures in Wonderland, Chapter 12, read by Chris Goringe. Alice's Evidence Here, cried Alice, quite forgetting in the flurry of the moment how large she had grown in the last few minutes, and she jumped up in such a hurry.
that she tipped over the jury-box with the edge of her skirt upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads of the crowd below and there they lay sprawling about reminding her very much of a globe of goldfish she had accidentally upset the week before oh i beg your pardon she exclaimed in a tone of great dismay and began picking them up again as quickly as she could for the accident of the goldfish kept running in her head
and she had a vague sort of idea that they must be collected at once and put back into the jury-box or they would die the trial cannot proceed said the king in a very grave voice until all of the jurymen are back in their proper places all he repeated with great emphasis looking hard at alice as he said so alice looked at the jury-box and saw that in her haste she had put the lizard in head downwards
and the poor little thing was waving its tail about in a melancholy way being quite unable to move she soon got it out again and put it right not that it signifies much she said to herself i should think it would be quite as much use in the trial one way up as the other as soon as the jury had a little recovered from the shock of being upset and their slates and pencils had been found and handed back to them they set to work very diligently to write out a history of the accident all except the lizard
"'who seemed too much overcome to do anything but sit with its mouth open, "'gazing up into the roof of the court. "'What do you know about this business?' the king said to Alice. "'Nothing,' said Alice. "'Nothing whatever?' persisted the king. "'Nothing whatever,' said Alice. "'That's very important,' the king said, turning to the jury. "'They were just beginning to write this down on their slates "'when the white rabbit interrupted. "'Unimportant, Your Majesty means, of course.'
he said in a very respectful tone but frowning and making faces at him as he spoke unimportant of course i meant the king hastily said and went on to himself in an undertone important unimportant unimportant important as if he was trying which word sounded best some of the jury wrote it down important and some unimportant alice could see this as she was near enough to look over their slates but it doesn't matter a bit she thought to herself
at this moment the king who had been for some time busily writing in his note-book cackled out silence and read out from his book rule forty-two all persons more than a mile high to leave the court everybody looked at alice i'm not a mile high said alice you are said the king nearly two miles high added the queen well i shan't go at any rate said alice besides that's not a regular rule you invented it just now
it's the oldest rule in the book said the king then it ought to be number one said alice the king turned pale and shut his notebook hastily consider your verdict he said to the jury in a low trembling voice there's more evidence to come yet please your majesty said the white rabbit jumping up in a great hurry this paper has just been picked up what's in it said the queen i haven't opened it yet said the white rabbit but it seems to be a letter
written by the prisoner to-to somebody it must have been that said the king unless it was written to nobody which isn't usual you know who is it directed to said one of the jurymen it isn't directed at all said the white letter in fact there's nothing written on the outside he unfolded the paper as he spoke and added it isn't a letter after all it's a set of verses are they in the prisoner's handwriting asked another of the jurymen
no they're not said the white rabbit and that's the queerest thing about it the jury all looked puzzled he must have imitated somebody else's hand said the king the jury all brightened up again please your majesty said the knave i didn't write it and they can't prove i did there's no name signed at the end if you didn't sign it said the king that only makes the matter worse you must have meant some mischief or else you'd have signed your name like an honest man
there was a general clapping of hands at this it was the first really clever thing the king had said that day that proves his guilt said the queen it proves nothing of the sort said alice why you don't even know what they're about read them said the king the white rabbit put on his spectacles where shall i begin please your majesty he asked begin at the beginning the king said gravely and go on till you come to the end
then stop these were the verses the white rabbit read they told me you had been to her and mentioned me to him she gave me a good character but said i could not swim he sent them word i had not gone we know it to be true if she would push the matter on what would become of you i gave her one they gave him two you gave us three or more they all returned from him to you though they were mine before
if i or she should chance to be involved in this affair he trusts to you to set them free exactly as we were my notion was that you had been before she had this fit an obstacle that came between him and ourselves and it don't let him know she liked them best for this must ever be a secret kept from all the rest between yourself and me
that's the most important piece of evidence we've heard yet said the king rubbing his hands and now let the jury if any one of them can explain it said alice she had grown so large in the last few minutes that she wasn't a bit afraid of interrupting him i'll give him sixpence i don't believe there's an atom of meaning in it the jury all wrote this down on their slates she doesn't believe there's an atom of meaning in it but none of them attempted to explain the paper if there's no meaning in it said the king
That saves a world of trouble, you know, as we needn't try to find any. And yes, I don't know, he went on, spreading out the verses on his knee and looking at them all with one eye. I seem to see some meaning in them, after all. Said I could not swim? You can't swim, can you? he added, turning to the knave. The knave shook his head sadly. Do I look like it, he said, which he certainly did not, being made entirely of cardboard. All right so far, said the king.
And he went on muttering over the verses to himself. We know it to be true. That's the jury, of course. I gave her one. They gave him two. Why, that must be what he did with the tarts, you know. But it goes on. They all returned from him to you, said Alice. Why, there they are, said the king triumphantly, pointing to the tarts on the table. Nothing can be clearer than that. Then again, before she had this fit. You never had fits, my dear, I think.
he said to the queen. Never, said the queen furiously, throwing an inkstand at the lizard as she spoke. The unfortunate little bill had left off writing on his slate with one finger, as he found it made no mark. But he now hastily began again, using the ink that was trickling down his face, as long as it lasted. Then the words don't fit you, said the king, looking round the court with a smile. There was a dead silence. It's a pun, the king added in offended tone, and everybody laughed.
let the jury consider their verdict the king said for about the twentieth time that day no no said the queen sentence first verdict afterwards snuffer nonsense said alice loudly the idea of having the sentence first hold your tongue said the queen turning purple i won't said alice off with her head the queen shouted at the top of her voice nobody moved
who cares for you said alice she had grown to her full size by this time you are nothing but a pack of cards at this the whole pack rose up into the air and came flying down upon her she gave a little scream half of fright and half of anger and tried to beat them off and found herself lying on the bank with her head in the lap of her sister who was gently brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the tree upon her face wake up alice dear said her sister
Why, what a long sleep you've had. Oh, I've had such a curious dream, said Alice. And she told her sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange adventures of hers that you have just been reading about. And when she had finished, her sister kissed her and said, It was a curious dream, dear, certainly. But now run into your tea, it's getting late. So Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she ran, as well she might, what a wonderful dream it had been.
but her sister sat still just as she left her leaning her head on her hand watching the setting sun and thinking of little alice and all her wonderful adventures till she too began dreaming after a fashion and this was her dream first she dreamed of little alice herself and once again the tiny hands were clasped upon her knee and the bright eager eyes were looking up into hers and she could hear the very tones of her voice
and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back the wandering hair that would always get into her eyes and still as she listened or seemed to listen the whole place around her became alive the strange creatures of her little sister's dream the long grass rustled at her feet as the white rabbit hurried by the frightened mouse splashed his way through the neighbouring pool she could hear the rattle of the
cups as the March Hare and his friends shared their never-ending meal, and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate guests to execution. Once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the Duchess's knee, while plates and dishes crashed around it. Once more the shriek of the griffon, the squealing of the lizard's slate pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea pigs filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable mock-turtle. So she sat on.
with closed eyes and half believed herself in wonderland though she knew she had but to open them again and all would change to dull reality the grass would be only rustling in the wind and the pool rippling to the waving of the reeds the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-bells and the queen's shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd-boy and the sneeze of the baby the shriek of the griffin and all the other queer noises would change she knew
to the confused clamour of the busy farmyard while the lowing of the cattle in the distance would take the place of the mock turtle's heavy sobs lastly she pictured to herself how this same little sister of hers would in the after-time be herself a grown woman and how she would keep through all her riper years the simple and loving heart of her childhood
and how she would gather about her other little children and make their eyes bright and eager with many a strange tale perhaps even with the dream of wonderland of long ago and how she would feel with all their simple sorrows and find a pleasure in all their simple joys remembering her own child-life and the happy summer days this is the end of alice's adventures in wonderland